From 2022/23, Student and cost centre full-time equivalence (FTE) data is not comparable across the nations. For students at providers in England, Northern Ireland, and Wales (including The Open University across all nations) cost centre FTE is based on the student FTE relating to the reference period (Z_STULOAD_CYC). For students at providers in Scotland (excluding The Open University Scotland), it is based on student FTE relating to each year of study (Z_STULOADSCS) and only includes study years which start in the reference period. For all nations, the cost centre FTE is derived by apportioning the student FTE data across the cost centres based on module dates and module FTE. Cost centre information is optional for postgraduate research students, so these students have been excluded from the cost centre FTE derivations. 

Due to this difference in methodology, the UK totals in this table for 2022/23 are suppressed and we advise caution when comparing data between countries and academic years using differing calculation methods. 

The student and cost centre full-time equivalence (FTE) data for providers in Scotland (excluding The Open University) may use a combination of actual and predicted FTE, the effect of which will be greater for some than others. The impact will vary depending on how much of their provision spans reporting years and how they previously reported the FTE for spanning students. The FTE calculations are based on the student's year(s) of study which start during the reference period. Where the study year hasn't ended in the reference period, predicted student FTE is used instead of actual student FTE. This may be combined with actual student FTE where multiple study years start in the same reference period and not all have ended. For some Scottish providers, using the predicted FTE is a notable change in approach for assigning FTE to students whose course years span reporting years and may lead to a noticeably higher FTE in 2022/23 than would previously have been the case. Predicted FTE is likely to be higher than actual FTE for students who do not subsequently complete their course year. This means the overall change in FTE for some Scottish providers may be influenced by the change in methodology and not accurately reflect changes in student load. 

The approach for calculating student FTE and cost centre FTE for providers has been updated. For providers in Scotland, where a student starts their year of study during the reference period and the year ends after the end of the reference period, actual student load (STULOAD) is used where available, otherwise the predicted value of student load (PREDICTEDSTULOAD) is used.  For all providers, the cost centre FTE approach has been refined to exclude modules returned out of scope. Also a dummy cost centre (Z9) has been used where there is applicable module information returned but cost centre data isn’t, this impacts Z_CCFTE and Z_STUFTE for all providers. The data for both 2022/23 and 2023/24 have been updated using this refined approach and for this reason, figures may differ slightly from those published previously for 2022/23. Note that cost centre FTE is the result of apportioning student FTE across cost centres. Cost centre FTE is not created for postgraduate research students and for certain modules, the module FTE may be zero (e.g. for inactive and APEL modules) meaning that the sum of apportioned cost centre FTE may not align with the student FTE. 
